What do companies in e-commerce,
entertainment, healthcare,
manufacturing,
marketing, finance, tech,
and hundreds of other
industries all have in common?
You guessed it,
they all use data.
Organizations of all kinds need
data analysts to help them
improve their processes,
identify opportunities
and trends,
launch new products, provide
great customer service,
and make thoughtful decisions.
Hi, I'm Tony, a program manager
at Google and a data
analyst myself.
I like to welcome you to
the Google Data
Analytics Certificate.
Now, there are lots of
great reasons to
earn this certificate.
Maybe you're thinking
about starting
a career in the exciting
world of data analytics,
or maybe you're just fascinated
by the power of data as I am.
No matter what brought you here,
you're in the right place
to kick-start a career and
learn industry-relevant
skills in data analytics.
But first, what exactly is data?
Well, I'll like to say that data
is a collection of facts.
This collection can
include numbers, pictures,
videos, words, measurements,
observations, and more.
Once you have data, analytics
puts it to work through analysis.
Data analysis is the
collection, transformation,
and organization of data in
order to draw conclusions,
make predictions, and drive
informed decision-making.
And it doesn't stop there.
Data evolves over time which
means this analysis or analytics,
as we call it, can give us
new information throughout
data's entire life cycle.
Data is everywhere.
You use and create data everyday.
Have you ever read
reviews of a product
before deciding whether
or not to buy it?
That's data analysis.
Or maybe you wear a
fitness tracker to count
your steps so you can stay
active throughout the day.
That's data analysis.
But you don't just use data.
You also create huge amounts
of it every single day.
Any time you use your phone,
look up something
online, stream music,
shop with a credit card,
post on social media or use
GPS to map a route,
you're creating data.
Our digital world and
the millions of smart
devices inside of
it have made the amount of data
available truly mind-blowing.
Here at Google we
process more than
40,000 searches every second.
That's 3.5 billion searches a day
and 1.2 trillion
searches every year.
Here's another way
to think about it.
YouTube has almost
two billion users.
If YouTube users
made up a country,
it would be the
largest in the world.
All of that data is transforming
the world around us.
The publication The
Economist recently
called data the world's
most valuable resource.
It's easy to see why
data analysts are so valued
by their organizations.
What exactly does
a data analyst do?
Put simply, a data analyst
is someone who collects,
transforms, and organizes data
in order to help make
informed decisions.
Besides the role itself,
one of the most
exciting parts of being
a data analyst is the number
of opportunities available.
The demand for data
analysts is greater than
the number of qualified people
to fill these job openings.
This certificate program is
a great first step in
your journey to finding
a job you love.
Data analysts come from
many different
backgrounds and have
all kinds of life experiences.
You don't need decades
of work experience
or an expensive education
to get started.
Many data analysts
taught themselves
the skills they needed
to land their first job,
just like you're doing right now.
Now let's talk more about
what you're going to learn.
The Google Data Analytics
Certificate is split into
courses based on different
processes for data analysis.
Those are ask, prepare,
process, analyze, share, and act.
Plan to watch these
videos in order.
Each one covers a new topic and
every topic builds on what
you've learned before,
making it easy to
track your progress.
You're in the driver's seat.
Even though you might see
things organized by weeks,
everything can be completed
at your own pace.
So you decide how much
you want to do each day.
By the end of the program,
you'll take everything you've
learned and turn it into
a project that you can use
to show off your skills,
and wow hiring managers
at your job interviews.
Now along the way you'll
also hear from Googlers.
That's what we call people
who work here at Google.
They'll give you an inside look
at what it's like to work in
our industry and share
personal stories of how
they got into the field.
They'll also give you
some excellent tips
on how to land your dream job.
Stay tuned. Some
of them are going
to introduce themselves
in just a sec.
I'm Angie. I'm a program manager
of engineering at Google.
I truly believe that cleaning
data is the heart
and soul of data.
It's how you get
to know your data,
its quirks, its
flaws, its mysteries.
I love a good mystery.
It felt like a superpower almost.
I was a detective and I had gone
in there and I'd really
solved something.
Hi, I'm Alex.
I'm a research
scientist at Google.
I research the
different impacts of
artificial intelligence
on society and our users.
My name is Lilah Jones.
I'm a part of our cloud team.
I get a chance to lead a team of
amazing individuals that are
focused on helping
customers get to the cloud.
Hi, I'm Evan.
I'm a learning portfolio
manager here at Google.
I have one of the coolest jobs
in the world where I get to
look at all the different
technologies that affect
big data and then work them into
training courses like this
one for students to take.
I'll be your instructor
for the first course.
I'll take you through
each module that will
cover a specific topic
in a few different ways.
You'll have videos, reading
materials, quizzes,
hands-on activities, and
discussion prompts for
you to chat about with other
students in an online forum.
I'm really excited to be guiding
you through this course,
but I'm especially excited
that you've chosen
this adventure.
Lifelong learning is something
that I'm very passionate about.
Growing up, when I looked around,
I often didn't see many
options available to me.
It wasn't until I started getting
serious about my education that
I realized I had
the control to make
my own opportunities
with education being the key
that would open those doors.
The more I learned and
the harder I worked,
the more possibilities opened up.
Had I not gone after
that knowledge and continued
challenging myself,
I may not be where I am today.
Learning allowed me to grow
personally, be successful,
visit places I would
never have seen,
and meet people I would
never have known.
Now I'm going to introduce
some of those great people.
Hello, I'm Ximena,
financial analyst.
I'll be helping you learn how to
ask the right
questions about data,
the project you work on and
the problems you're
trying to solve.
Hey, my name is Hallie,
analytical lead.
I'm so excited to show you how to
prepare your data so
it's ready for analysis.
Hello, I'm Sally, measurement
and analytical lead.
Together we'll cover how to
process and clean your data.
Cleaning data doesn't
require soap and water.
I'm talking about making
sure your data is complete,
correct, and relevant to
the problem you're
trying to solve.
Hey, I'm Ayanna, global
insights manager.
We'll be digging into analysis.
You'll learn how to
collect, transform,
and organize data so that you can
use it to discover
useful information,
draw conclusions, and
make great decisions.
My name's Kevin and with
my experience as Director
of analytics at Google,
I'll guide you through
what I think is
the most exciting part of
the data analysis process: plan,
create, and present
effective and compelling
data visualizations.
Hello, my name is Carrie.
I can't wait to tell you about
all the exciting things you can
do with the programming
language R. Are you ready?
Hi, I'm Rishie,
Global analytics skills
curriculum manager.
I'm going to help you bring
together everything
you learned during
this program by creating
a case study that will
dazzle any hiring manager.
Just like the capstone of
a great building shows
everyone that it's complete,
your case study will signify
your own great
achievement of earning
a Google certificate
in data analytics.
Okay, are you getting excited
about the potential of
becoming a data analyst?
So much is possible with data.
You're about to enter
a whole new world.
Ready? Let's go.